---
layout: post
title: Do or Pay
---
Well, what to say I promised to return in 2 weeks after my last post and could not. Bringing up a kid is tiring. Most of November I was unable to practice. I felt disappointed in myself every day but felt helpless. I could not even set an alarm, as it would wake up my kid. I had to wake up between 3 AM to 4.30 AM for his feed and had to stay up for at least half an hour. After all this, it was turning out to be impossible to get up early again and do my practices. Why didn't I just stay up after his feed? Well, there is no fixed time when my kid would wake up, and I also need enough sleep.

After around one and a half months of no practice, I started to feel my old physical problems return. My digestion was becoming worse, my back was hurting. I had to find a solution quickly. Isn't it all about willpower the ability to do even when the odds are against you. In this case, my "willpower" was surely not helping, so I needed something else.

What I turned to is a service that allows users to set goals and track progress toward that goal. If the user is progressing as per the settings (set by the users), then everything is fine, if they fail then the service automatically deducts money, real money. I have added a goal to practice yog every week for some fixed number of hours and will be increasing the progress rate gradually. For now, this "do or pay" method is working out for me. One of a day last week, I woke up late and knew I did not have enough time to complete the half an hour practice so I decided to practice only for 15 mins. I feel it is more important to practice every day than to practice for a fixed time every day. For the alarm, I am using an app that supports vibration only alarm and also tracks my sleep pattern, snoring etc. Without the alarm, it will impossible for me to wake up at the right time and even a 15 min. delay causes all kinds of havoc in my morning schedule. 

I have started practicing jal neti once per week and finally bought a neti pot. I must say the pot, which in quite, inexpensive has made it very comfortable and efficient to practice jal neti. Any of you who are practicing jal neti, please but a neti pot, it will make a huge difference. They are available in online stores too.

Now I will be adding a goal to write more entries in this log and hopefully will be much more regular in my posting.

Live well! See you in a few weeks!
