---
layout: post
title: 2021 - A new start
---

It been some time since I wrote here; almost three years. So much has changed since I last wrote here, yet so much is still the same. For one, I am still on the path of spirituality through yoga. My kid goes to school, at least in what little is possible during this pandemic. All through out this pandemic I have been through so many phases, perpetually angry phase, lazy & lethargic phase, drunk every night phase, super productive phase, depressed phase and so many others. For a long time during the pandemic, I had to live with my parents. All I can say is it didn't go well, now they too understand our state of relationship and we have come to a silent mutual agreement. On my professional front, I decided to let go of a management position that I have been serving for some time now, and return to something which I enjoy more. I didn't let go of the company or the job, but stayed on in a different role. I am not out of the role yet, but hopefully would be in the next few months as a new person is hired. Hiring the right person is difficult!

Reading all this you may think I am super depressed and probably cursing 2020 for being extremely bad. 2020 probably has been one of best time it seems now. The year gave me the opportunity to let go of things I have been too afraid or felt too awkward to let go. It has shown me the deep seated problems in my psyche. Nothing is fixed in a day, but now I am more positive, because I understand the problems a little better.

As 2021 started, I seated myself to start my yoga practice, and with little will, folded my hands to call upon God to be my Guru, my guide. I must explain, I am not a *bhakti* oriented person. I am more of a logic person, knowledge person, bookish. So this action was a bit out of character. By the end of practice while meditating, tears filled my eyes and rolled down. There was no great sorrow or happiness just a sense of peace. It's amusing to think this happening while my kid is in the toilet just behind me and his mother screaming at him something which I don't remember.

My responsibility as a householder, a family man, an employee will be there. I can't shrug them off, as I have thought earlier so many times. It's time to adopt *Karma Yoga*. [Reading the Bhagvad Gita](https://www.amazon.in/Bhagavad-Gita-Complete-Bhagavad-Commentary-Readers/dp/0932040276/ref=sr_1_4?dchild=1&keywords=bhagavad+gita+by+swami+satchidananda&qid=1610529910&sr=8-4) and listening to [Swami Sarvapriyananda's lectures on Gita](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/vedanta-talks/id1247628265) have cleared any doubts about the path I need to follow. I must do my duty, although I am using company sponsored time to write this blog, oops! I was never a *matra* person either, but the new path is so much easier when I do my work with the chanting of the simple mantra, *Hare Rama, Hare Rama, Rama Rama, Hare Hare! Hare Krishna, Hare Krishna, Krishna Krishna, Hare Hare!* The morning yoga, simple sattvik diet, gives me the energy and patience to do my duties without getting angry, frustrated, though after cleaning a lot of dishes, my back does start hurting :)

BTW, if you are into meditation apps, do try out [Medito](https://meditofoundation.org/medito-app). It's completely free, and the organization behind it is a non-profit.

The journey continues, I don't know where I would reach, but I am enjoying it.
